um my name is justin betticaray i'm ceo
and co-founder of raise hi i'm felipe
president of rays
so we've built a technology-powered
brokerage to help companies find build
and manage workplaces they love
and we're here today to talk about how
to actually build the hybrid workplace
but before we go into that
i'm going to ask you all to close your
eyes
take yourself back to 2019
it's the end of the quarter
your whole team's there in person
the music's playing
you're closing deals
you hit your stretch goal and everyone's
hugging and giving high fives
and drinking cocktails
take yourself back to those late night
product sessions where you're jamming on
the whiteboard with your team
solving complex problems debating issues
all in person
we're not too far off from having those
same experiences again
the task at hand is how can we take
those great experiences and pair them
with what we've learned about working
remotely for the last 18 months
you know as justin said we're on a
mission to
help companies the best companies in the
world find build and manage workplaces
that they love
as a commitment to their people as a
commitment to their customers
as an expression of their company
culture as you can imagine a company
like ours was uh impacted by kovitt
but i can say that in our six years
we've never had a busier nine months
than we just came out of we've helped
more companies and generated more
revenue
as a result of this emergence
we're emerging from a decades-long
top-down mandate of how
when and where work happened
i would venture a guess that just about
everybody in this audience has over the
last 18 months
been asked to be a part of a survey or
has been forced to create an opinion
about how when and where you'll do your
best work
times are changing
we just did an analysis of the top yc
companies that they publish every year
the the largest market cap coming out of
yc in the history
95 of those companies are going to have
offices post-pandemic
and most of them will be hybrid
so the future is hybrid
most of the iconic brands in technology
that we all know
are building hybrid workplaces and
remember even whether you're office
centric or remote first
the similarity is that
office
all of these companies have office space
so what is workplace i mean it's this
very sort of amorphous word that is
assigned to
the built environment that expression of
a company's culture and commitment to
their people and the programming that
makes these places come to life for
their employees that brings people back
once you've distilled out the why that's
where the word workplace comes to play
we're working with a
large cross section of companies from
early stage startups to fortune 100
companies and in helping them with their
rto return to office planning
we've come to find that it's essentially
these four
strategies that are being employed in
some form or another across size ranges
so let's walk you through some
definitions so hybrid office centric
also known as synchronized hybrid this
is what companies like asana
and front are doing where
most of the hiring is done around hubs
in certain locations
and they synchronize when you come into
the office two to three days a week and
then you can work from anywhere two to
three days a week
so remote first is what coinbase and
shopify and brex are doing
where they run the entire company
remotely from
asynchronization um to
all hands um done remotely but they have
hubs where you can almost like a cafe
where you can go in and visit colleagues
or even do heads down work
it's not one size fits all as evidenced
by hybrid flex which is essentially a
mix of the first two
where a percentage of the company is
office centric based on team on work
type
there is an ability for by team work
type or individual to be remote and the
workplace is there to complement both of
those some of the largest companies in
the world like facebook and microsoft
and twitter are employing uh this
strategy and then of course office
centric there are
meaningful employers out there who are
looking for
as similar a return to the way that
things were in 2019 as you could imagine
for better or for worse all of these
that are employing any of these four
strategies or a mix of them
are committed to the test and retest
all right so we got the definitions down
but
we always have to return to the question
of why why return to the office when for
most of us we've been able to remain
productive
microsoft just did a study of 60 000 of
their employees and what they found was
while some productivity maintained
silos were created around teams
in which they didn't collaborate and so
you know people were on islands during
these last 18 months
and fundamentally
a lot of what we're missing is the joy
from work the joy from having
relationships with our colleagues that
aren't just in front of a computer
screen
microsoft gets to do it with a very
large sample set but at any size range
if we're doing our jobs and building
great companies then the teams will grow
the geographies will grow and the
mission of each of those will grow and
if we can't get them to work together
actively then so much of the joy goes
away in addition to our ability as
employers to deliver on our commitments
besides
who the hell wants to work with a bunch
of strangers
so um
we've talked a lot about theory but
let's ground it in a workshop around how
to actually build the hybrid workplace
and we thought no better way than to eat
our own dog food and talk about how we
at raise return to the workplace
but first we wanted to kind of give a
sense of state of the union for us like
many of you we hired over 50 of our team
in the last 18 months fully remotely
prior to the pandemic we had two offices
we let both of those leases expire
in san francisco and la
at the start of the pandemic 20 of our
team was remote fully distributed 20 of
our team worked in la in our hub and 60
of our team worked at hq
so after the pandemic hit um we launched
our third market palo alto
more of our team from san francisco as
many of you have probably experienced
moved to the suburbs like you know the
south bay or the north bay
and then some moved out of state
and we hired a more distributed team we
have folks in london and chicago and the
east coast and the west coast
so we were already a hybrid company
like i said you know 40 of our team was
outside of hq but we knew that once the
pandemic hit we would never go back to
the way things were we didn't want to
and so we've all gone through this
journey
in our individual ways and i thought it
would be helpful to talk about like my
own journey as ceo
i was in the office five to six days a
week pre-pandemic
and to go fully remotely was a huge
shock
to the way i worked the way i developed
relationships there would be people i
saw every day in the office that i
wouldn't talk to for months in a fully
remote world
and so i had to develop a lot of empathy
we all went through this journey not
only
figuring out how best we work but also
just going through the struggles of the
pandemic in our own personal ways
and then the last thing i wanted to talk
about was balancing my wants with how
everyone else wanted to work
there there wasn't one prescription that
i could give to say how everyone else on
the team should work and so we had to
adapt to everyone's individual needs by
individual by team um and by location
well empathy is
really that word that we keep coming
back to
we ask ourselves all the time at rey's
why
why would you have a workplace why would
you commit to the human experience and
what role does the workplace play in
that
and you know this shared trauma that we
all went through it drove empathy and it
forced us as leaders for our own company
and the clients that we serve to meet
their employees where they are to have
an empathetic view of how everybody was
processing what was happening and to be
able to reduce friction
increase trust and over communicate
through that process so part of justin's
journey which i was believe me alongside
for every step of it um
we were always empathetic leaders but
the empathy of understanding that it
didn't have to happen in a workplace on
every single day for us to meet our
employees and our team members where
they were was a really key role yeah
so um let's talk about the key factors
in actually returning to the workplace
now that we're on the cusp but many of
us are on the cusp of doing some form or
fashion of that
well
again you begin with the why
what does a return to workplace mean in
terms of our business
achieving our goals with our business
through our people means that we have to
start there we serve our employees and
they in turn are the life's blood of our
business
lisa pickard from eq office said it best
culture is the software of the
organization and the workplace is the
hardware
the war for talent is raging people in
this room are competing with each other
for market share and for talent right
ultimately if you begin with the people
the people today have a voice like never
before
and that's where we started in terms of
the key factors for our return to office
from there you got to get the data
come back when you've got the data right
um starting with surveys
early and often i'm guessing that just
about everybody here has has
participated in a survey but the most
important part of the survey process was
to embrace the fact that they would
change over time facebook surveyed their
employees every six months and the swing
went from 80 percent
in june wanting to work remotely at the
start of the pandemic to only six months
later 80 percent of people wanting to
come in two to three days a week so
early and often but what do you do when
you've got the information
i talked about the decades-long top-down
mandate which was really quite tone deaf
to the needs of people people didn't
have a choice they didn't have a voice
they didn't have a vote
right if you're going to survey your
people you've got to show them your
listening and then go do something about
it
for us that meant
the concerns that our our team had were
based in
health and safety
risk
the ability to get to and from
the workplace when they wanted to and
could when there was a specific reason
for it and how could we do our best to
increase communications so we adopted a
tier minus one policy right
which is
in any of the locations that we operate
in office we'll take the local
regulation and be one step more
conservative
by show of hands how many were a part of
a whip saw that was something's open
something's closed masks are on masks
are all i see some nods and some smiles
right there you go
that whip saw
it's added to the collective burden when
all we're trying to do is do our best
work and then be the best person we can
when we show up so tier minus one was
very important that led us to
we've got to open places and meet our
employees where they are
everybody
from an empathetic viewpoint
has
different constraints in the home or
their other place of work
and so our ability to understand where
our employees wanted to be and meet them
there became a key factor for us
um you know one of the key tenets in
this is that
we don't really know if we're in the
fourth inning
fifth inning
other sports ball analogies
insert here
but an office access plan
is a step towards
letting your team members know and for
us was incredibly important that there
was a place when they needed and that
they could find it understand how to
utilize it and interact with it and it
was there for them as
part of our commitment to their
experience yeah the key here is that it
was totally voluntary and so we never we
have yet to
um and perhaps never will force people
to come back we always want to
incentivize them through the carrot not
the stick
so let's look at the results
so in la we're going to talk through our
la office our palo alto office and our
san francisco office so for la we had a
fast-growing team but we knew we needed
to get them back really quickly and so
we went with a wework
um
you know the key thing with wework is is
one that it's a month-to-month you know
contract so we have the flexibility to
get out and grow into our new space
during the pandemic we moved in there it
was almost fully empty it's now at 73
occupancy and growing
and as justin mentioned earlier we
allowed that lease to lapse originally
in l.a during the pandemic one of the
things that we're helping so many of our
clients understand is that making
long-term choices with short-term data
is not what we should be doing the
ability to stay flexible and nimble to
gather that data and act and react to it
was most important and so wework played
a big part in that for us the same is
true in silicon valley we started with a
flex provider regis
which was part of our office access plan
as we had team members there that really
just didn't have the right situation at
home and we were able to use that until
we had visibility into finding a space
that was going to work for us from a
culture and brand standpoint but again
it was a short-term commitment we were
able to use all used furniture which
saved us over a hundred thousand dollars
and then in the layout of the space it's
over 75 percent communal as a close as
opposed to one-to-one desking remember
we're in the very lucky position that we
get to serve all of the greatest
employers out there and the best
practices of some of these best
companies that we are able to advise we
get to eat our own dog food and do it
for ourselves
so um the biggest concentration of our
team is in san francisco and you know we
had a much bigger office
pre-pandemic and we let that lease
expire and we moved in with a friend of
ours so that we could
analyze for nine months how we actually
use the space how often people came in
and the things that we learned were one
that
people were really craving that social
environment and so you know we put
together some events once a week
for the team that came in um you know
pretty obvious phone booths were heavily
utilized um
a dynamic space where there was just
different environments where it wasn't
just a sea of desks and a sea of
conference rooms around it
and then we also wanted an indoor
outdoor feel
and so what we were able to do we used
to be in a one-to-one every single
person had a desk pre-pandemic now we're
three to one hot desking and so there's
a lot less desk and a lot more room to
have couches and high tables and you
know ways for our team to come together
that's not just sitting heads with their
headphones on at their desk
yeah all of their
uh all of the conference rooms have zoom
rooms um and the you know noise
canceling uh
types of rooms where you could have
conversations where you can either jump
on a zoom or have a private conversation
with a colleague were super important
and and how did we get here i mean we
build a suite of technologies that that
help our clients
find build and manage workplaces that
they love but the number of tools that
are out there to gather synthesize and
act on the what our client our employees
are telling us in this test retest model
like envoy eden
verge sense salt mine i mean there are
some incredible tools out there that
really allow us to read the tea leaves
in being non-prescriptive on how we're
bringing people back to the office with
programming right
what about the workplace is supposed to
be fun and engaging how are we getting
people back and then how are we watching
them utilize these spaces you'll notice
that for all of these we had a step one
and step two yep and it was through
tools like that that we were able to to
create spaces that we're now seeing that
our our employees and team members are
really engaged with right the important
thing here is to learn that there's no
end with this right this is going to be
evolving over the next
10 years to figure out like what the
right equilibrium is between remote and
hybrid workplace and office centric
and the key thing is to find that
harmony between the two to give your
team flexibility but also not miss that
like in person energy that we all love
and so you know
uh
right now more than ever folks are ready
to return it's obviously gonna look
different on individual levels but
the survey data is really compelling for
people that want to get back to that
in-person interaction with their team
i i think you bring up a great point in
the fact that there's no end to this
in the 40 years proceeding today the
workplace was already evolving
technology being put into the workplace
allowed for you know additional
communication and and the sense of
remote teams being able to work together
the the way that an office at arm's
length looked in 2019 was so drastically
different from the way that it looked in
2000 and 1990 and before that has to
continue to be the case the very
important part that we're in right now
in this hybrid model is are we as
employers ready to bring people back
as sentiment changes
what are we doing to gather information
from our team members
what are the strategies that we're
putting in place what are the technology
tools that we're embracing in order to
gather that information and create a
strategy
i took a guess that just about everybody
here has been a part of a survey in
terms of the return to office by a show
of hands
who's been a part of a survey for a
hybrid office return fair number
remember those change over time it is so
important to cast your vote and cast
with your employee base a periodic
resurvey because times are changing
so uh a few months ago one of our
investors initialized um the partner kim
mai and i wrote an article that was
titled office is dead long live the
office
and
you know it really captures the
sentiment like we all have really strong
opinions about where this is going
you know
remote forever or office forever um
we really do believe that they can live
in harmony the things that we have to
remember when we're bringing people back
it will have been two years of this
pandemic
and we've built so many habits from that
that we have to you know either take
with us or unlearn and so just have some
empathy for your team that there's going
to be social anxiety around being in
person there's going to be the change of
like waking up in your sweats
getting coffee going to your computer
talking to your computer for 10 hours
it's kind of insane
but you know it has worked for a lot of
us
and you know note that you know
companies like loom and chime coinbase
benchline gem fair after pay all of
these companies many of which are our
clients have leased office spaces in the
last six months
and so that you know companies are
getting ready to get back
but don't force your employees back yet
um you know
get through the winter
do the open open office access plan that
we've talked about but use the carrot
not the stick create amazing incentives
reduce friction
for how to get back um whether it's
commuting um you know stipends or you
know just making sure that your office
location is really accessible
um and then for your remote employees um
you know now about 30 of our company is
remote and they're amazing people that
we want to keep and keep engaged
we bring them to the office once a
quarter and we basically those those are
you know on-sites are the new off-sites
for those remote employees and then the
last thing we'll leave you with is just
help help people remember what is
special about being together and that's
what the workplace is all about
[Music]
you